# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.13.9001

### Enhancements
* Implemented a new widget that allows dragging and dropping to select comparison groups.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.13

### Enhancements
#### `tm_g_pp_adverse_events`
* Updated the position of the labels.
* Updated the plot to render the color legend.

#### `tm_t_summary_by`
* Enhanced the module to support the geometric mean in the encoding panel.

#### `tm_t_summary`
* Updated and added a footnote.
* Enhanced the module to support geometric mean in the encoding panel.
* Updated the module to display the checkboxes for numeric variables statistics only when numeric variables are part of the selected.
* Updated validations to warn users when using a dataset with non unique identifiers or when selecting variables with non supported types (i.e. `Date`, `POSIXt`).
* Added a checkbox to remove the column generated by missing values.

#### Other modules
* Updated `tm_t_binary_outcome` to enable an option to apply a continuity correction in the Newcombe method
* Simplified the show R code for `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` module.
* Improved the names of the code chunks shown in `Debug Info`.
* Improved the validation if treatment variable is not a factor.

### Bug fixes
* Updated the validation to account for the error when multiple variables are not selected in `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` module.

### Miscellaneous
* Added a `pkgdown` template to the documentation.
* Updated package authors.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.12

### Miscellaneous
* Changed the input of `Covariates` in `tm_t_coxreg.R` to track user input and reflect the order in the table.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.12

### New features
* New module `tm_t_shift_by_arm_by_worst` was added for the analysis of the laboratory abnormalities with the most severe grade flag.
* Enhanced `tm_t_events_patyear` to include selected parameter in title of the table.
* Enhanced `tm_t_mult_events ` to include selected parameter in title of the table.

### Enhancements
* Rewrote modules to use `moduleServer` and updated calls to `teal.devel` modules which have also been written to use `moduleServer`.
* Changed the way of obtaining of selection ordered after changes in `teal.devel`. Use `ordered = TRUE` in `cs_to_des_select` or `cs_to_select_spec` to return ordered selection.
* Replaced calls to `teal::root_modules` with `teal::modules` following deprecation of `teal::root_modules`.
* `tm_t_events_summary` now allows nested `arm_var` columns matching other outputs such as `tm_t_events`.
* Added validation in `tm_t_abnormality_by_worst_grade` when `arm_var` is not selected.
* Enhanced `tm_t_binary_outcome`, all responders are included in the response table by default now.

### Bug fixes
* Fixed a bug where an empty set of data could be processed by `tm_g_forest_rsp.R` causing `shiny` errors during the runtime.
* Fixed a bug where a closed `Compare Treatments` conditional panel with a marked `Combine all comparison groups?` option conflicted with adding a column with all patients to tables in `tm_t_binary_outcome.R` and `tm_t_tte.R`.

### Miscellaneous
* Replaced the deprecated `rtables::var_labels` calls in the documentation examples.
* Add import of `tern.mmrm` package and change some references after split of `tern`.
* Adjusted package imports to take into account changes to the `teal` framework.
* Ensure consistent vertical order of `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` output when switching between absolute and relative days.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.11

### Breaking changes
* Updated `tm_t_abnormality` due to changes in `count_abnormal` that `abnormal` argument is taking list as input now.
* Changed the `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` parameter, `cmtrt`, to `cmdecod`.

### New features
* New module `tm_t_abnormality_by_worst_grade` was added for the analysis of laboratory test results with highest grade post-baseline.
* Enhanced `tm_t_ancova` to include selected parameter(s), visit(s) and the analysis variable in title of the table.
* New module `tm_g_lineplot` was added for creating line plots.
* Enhanced `tm_t_logistic` to include selected parameter in title of the table.
* Enhanced `tm_g_forest_rsp` to include selected parameter in title of the table.
* Enhanced `tm_g_forest_tte` to include selected parameter in title of the table.
* Enhanced `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` with bold axes labels and integer values on the axis.
* Enhanced `tm_g_ipp` to allow users not to display `AVALU` in the title nor in the y axis.

### Enhancements
* Added support for logging with the `logger` package and added info level logs upon initialization of a module.
* Added `default_responses` argument to `tm_t_binary_outcome` and `tm_g_forest_rsp` to allow the user to specify default selected responses and possible response levels.
* Updated `tm_t_binary_outcome` to show only the selected responses in the output table when "Show All Selected Response Categories" is checked.
* Added `rsp_table` argument to `tm_t_binary_outcome` to allow the user to initialize the module matching the `RSPT01` STREAM template.
* Added support for custom arguments for `ggplot2::labs` and `ggplot2::theme` in plot based modules.
* Added support for custom arguments for `rtables::basic_table` in table based modules.
* Updated `tm_t_binary_outcome` to enable an option to apply a continuity correction in the Wilson method.

### Miscellaneous
* Updated R version requirement to >= 3.6.
* Refactored calls to the defunct `teal.devel::data_extract_input` into calls to its replacement `teal.devel::data_extract_ui`.
* Updated modules to use new `data_merge_module` interface provided by `teal.devel` and removed usage of the now deprecated function `teal.devel::get_input_order`.
* Updated `tm_t_binary_outcome` module to add a template and removed the now deprecated module `tm_t_rsp`.
* Removed `utils.nest` dependency and replaced calls with `checkmate` equivalents.

### Bug Fixes
* Fixed bug in `tm_g_pp_therapy` where if the `cmstdy` or `cmendy` argument is of type `integer` causes the plot to crash.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.10
### New features
* New module `tm_t_smq` was added for the analysis of adverse events by Standardized `MedDRA` Query.
* New module `tm_t_shift_by_grade` was added for the analysis of grade laboratory abnormalities.
* New module `tm_t_exposure` was added for the analysis of duration of exposure for risk management plan.
* New module `tm_t_shift_by_arm` that can display shift table of ECG interval data.

### Bug fixes
* Corrected `tm_a_mmrm` to be able to consider the treatment variable in additional interactions.
* Fixed `tm_t_binary_outcome` and `tm_t_rsp` so that correct CI estimation method is chosen for Proportions Difference in Stratified Analysis (i.e. Wald-type confidence interval with CMH weights).

### Enhancements
* Added validation checks to `tm_t_rsp` and `tm_t_binary_outcome` for stratification errors when filters are applied.
* Added `tm_g_km` validation check for plot tables font size.
* Enhanced `tm_g_km` to add the selected `paramcd` in the plot title.
* `tm_t_events` now can display layouts with two nested column as treatment variables. The same pruning and sorting options can be applied.
* Previously package helper functions were never exported. These functions have now been exported so they can be utilized.
* `tm_t_events_by_grade` now can display grading groups in nested columns with `col_by_grade` option. In addition, module now supports pruning and sorting options similar to `tm_t_events`.
* Used `format_count_fraction` to fix formatting inconsistency in `tm_t_events_summary`.
* Updated `count_occurrences` `vars` argument in `tm_t_shift_by_grade`.
* Updated `tm_t_pp_laboratory` to display 4 decimals by default.
* Updated `tm_t_events_by_grade` to use the `trim_levels_in_group` split function instead of the `trim_rows` function.
* Added a table title to `tm_t_tte`.
* Added table titles to `tm_t_rsp` and `tm_t_binary_outcome`.

### Miscellaneous
* Updated `LICENCE` and `README` with new package references.
* Added `error_on_lint: TRUE` to `.lintr`.
* Removed `insert_rrow` and updated usage of `count_patients_by_flags` in `tm_t_events_summary`.
* Changed how the package calls functions from the `dplyr` package. The functions should be now fully specified (e.g. `dplyr::filter`).

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.9
### New features
* Added a capability to remember the order of user input to some encoding UI elements. The inputs with tracking enabled are marked with a double arrow icon. The affected modules are: `tm_t_summary`, `tm_t_summary_by`, `tm_g_forest_rsp`, `tm_g_forest_tte`, `tm_t_events_summary`, `tm_t_abnormality`, `tm_t_mult_events`.
* Added a new argument `numeric_stats` to `tm_t_summary` and `tm_t_summary_by` to control displayed summary statistics for numeric variables.
* Added a new argument `drop_zero_levels` to `tm_t_summary_by` so that rows with all zeros can be dropped from result
table.

### Enhancements
* Split `tm_g_patient_profile` tabs into 8 separate new modules.
* Added the option to select patient ID from the filter panel for all the modules of patient profile.
* Added an additional validation for `tm_g_patient_timeline` when the plot is empty.
* Enhanced `tm_a_mmrm` to work without the treatment variable.
* Added the option to choose the number of decimal places for rounding in `tm_t_pp_laboratory`.
* Added a check box to `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` hiding/showing relative study days on the x-axis.
* Added a title with patient's id to plots in patient profile modules.
* Made the grey error message in `tm_g_forest_tte` more informative when the `Endpoint` column was deselected in the left-hand encoding panel.
* Added the twenty-fifth and seventy-fifth quantile to summary statistics in `tm_t_summary`.
* Added an interaction p-value column for `tm_t_coxreg`.
* Added an additional validation for `tm_t_ancova` when selected covariate variables contain just one level.
* Added an additional validation for `tm_t_events_patyear` when the events variable is empty.
* Changed the description of the font size input in `Additional plot settings` (`tm_g_km`) to more precisely represent what it controls.
* Enhanced `tm_t_logistic` so that interaction choices depend on the selected covariates.
* Enhanced `tm_t_rsp` so that strata input is only visible when treatments are compared.

### Bug fixes
* Fixed Get R Code output of `tm_t_pp_laboratory` to return identical HTML formatted table as displayed in the app.
* Added an additional validation for `tm_t_coxreg` to ensure treatment, strata and covariate variables do not overlap.
* Limited the label repel feature in `tm_g_pp_patient_timeline` to X-axis for a more consistent look.
* Updated `tm_t_summary_by` so that `paramcd` is not required when analyzing `ADSL` variables.
* Updated `tm_t_coxreg` so that it can work when there is no covariate selected.
* Updated `tm_a_mmrm` so that it can work when treatment variable is not selected.
* Updated `tm_g_forest_tte` so that total number of events are also shown in the table.
* Updated `tm_t_events_summary` to work with pooled studies.
* Updated `tm_t_coxreg` to validate the `at` level.
* Updated `tm_t_logistic` to validate the `at` level.
* Added an additional validation for `tm_t_binary_outcome` and `tm_t_rsp` to ensure strata variable
contains more than one level when just one strata variable is selected.
* Updated the warning message when all statistics are deselected in `tm_t_summary` and `tm_t_summary_by` explaining at least one statistic has to be selected.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.8
### Enhancements
* Added the option to download and expand tables.
* In `tm_g_km` added support for downloading images and updated x-axis label to be shown in title case.
* For `tm_g_patient_profile`:
  * Added a slider for the font size in plots.
  * Added persistence for selected table lengths.
  * The timeline plot now supports more edge cases.
  * In vitals tab, removed unused label text legend, updated plot to display stable colors per levels, cleared x-axis limit and fixed legend to update when filtering. Also added a note to clarify the supported horizontal lines cases.
  * Updated adverse events tab to show a warning message instead of an empty plot when data is empty.
  * Fixed PARAMCD selected levels for current patient.
* For `tm_t_tte`:
  * Updated the pre-processing code inside `template_tte` so that a dataset without any events still produces a table.
  * Updated code to use correct denominator for duration of response endpoints.
* For `tm_t_summary`:
  * Modified the parameter `arm_var` to accept more than one column. When two columns are selected for `arm_var`, then the second variable will be nested under the first one.
  * Added argument `show_labels` to `template_summary` so that the label for a single summary variable is shown in the table.
* Added a new parameter `conf_arg` to `tm_t_rsp` to be consistent with other efficacy modules.
* Added validate statement in `tm_g_ipp` module to print message when `Timepoint Variable` drop down is deselected.
* Removed header definition in `tm_g_forest_rsp` and `tm_g_forest_tte` as there is now a default header in `g_forest`.
* Fixed validate statement in `tm_t_coxreg` so that models without strata and using likelihood tests return a result.
* Clarified functionality of `drop_arm_levels` for `tm_t_summary` and `tm_t_summary_by`. In the encodings panel, the checkbox will only be shown when the parent dataset and analysis dataset are different.

### Miscellaneous
* Replaced the remaining two `observe` function calls with `observeEvent` to optimize performance.
* Fixed grammar in the "Select a patient's id" error message in the `tm_g_patient_profile`.
* Fixed the `font_size` default of the templates to be 12L instead of a vector of 3 integers and cleaned associated unnecessary code.
* Fixed deprecated function warning in `tm_g_barchart_simple`.
* Fixed `subgroup_var` definition truncation in `tm_g_forest_rsp` and `tm_g_forest_tte`.
* Clarified "Type of Regression" related labeling in the encoding panel from `tm_t_coxreg`.

### Bug fixes
* Added a validation for the case when all rows are filtered out in the therapy tab of `tm_g_patient_profile`.
* Updated the internals of the modules to read data from the correct field of the `filter_spec` objects.
* Fixed the reactivity between the filter panel and the PARAMCD variable levels input in `tm_g_patient_profile` vitals tab so that the plot does not get reset when filtering.
* Updated the vitals plot tab in `tm_g_patient_profile` to drop NA entries in the plot.
* Updated `tm_t_coxreg` to take at values into account.
* Added a check in `tm_t_coxreg` to only have interactions for univariate models.
* Updated `tm_t_events_summary` to work with pooled studies.


# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.7
### New Module
* New module `tm_g_patient_profile` was added to profile patients based on predefined categories.
* New module `tm_g_ipp` was added for individual patient plots.

### Enhancements
* The argument `drop_arm_levels` was added to all safety modules. This allows removal of columns based on factor levels not found in filtered data.
* `tm_g_km` updated to allow plot of failure probability on y-axis, tick interval selection on x-axis and option to create plot without confidence interval ribbon (new default).
* The argument `time_unit_var` was added to `template_g_km` to add the time unit to the x-axis label.

### Miscellaneous
* Removed redundant `Analysis Data:` label from Encodings Panel.
* Removed limit requiring 15 or fewer columns for tabulation modules. New maximum threshold is 100 columns.
* Lowered limit for minimum number of observations required by modules. Safety tables require at least one record. For efficacy outputs the requirement is per treatment group: `tm_a_mmrm` requires five records, `tm_t_logistic` and `tm_t_coxreg` require two records and the remaining modules require at least one record per treatment group. For graphs, the minimum threshold is two records.
* Removed argument `cnsr_val` from `tm_t_events_patyear` and added new argument `events_var`.
* `arm_ref_comp_observer` to include `parentname` argument.
* Show R code to include datasets retrieved from `data_extract_spec` objects.
* Refactored out the `stringr` dependency from the patient profile module.
* Added missing table calls in chunks for `tm_t_events` and `tm_t_events_by_grade`.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.6

### New Features
* New module `tm_g_ci` was added for confidence interval plots.
* New module `tm_t_ancova` was added for analysis of variance summary tables.
* New module `tm_t_mult_events` was added for multiple events by term.

### Enhancements
* Refactored all modules using the redesigned `rtables` and `tern` packages.
* Enhanced modules. They now take advantage of `data_extract_spec` and `data_merge_module` functionality from `teal`.
* Reduced clutter from repeated datasets in the encodings panels.
* Updated all modules to use `OptionalSelectInput` for `conf_level`.

### Miscellaneous
* Added vignette about `substitute` which can be helpful when developing analysis template functions for teal modules.

### Bug fixes
* Updated `tm_t_events` module to use user's choices for `prune_freq` and `prune_diff` when non-default is used

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.5

* All graph modules now accept a `plot_width` argument which specifies the plot width and renders a slider to adjust the width interactively in the module.
* `FilteredData` object is now passed to `arm_ref_comp_observer` and modules now support nested lists containing `delayed_data` objects.
* Replace `plot_with_height` module with new `plot_with_settings` module.
* Update examples to use `code` argument inside `cdisc_dataset`.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.4

* Extend `tm_t_coxreg` to optionally produce univariate Cox regressions.
* Updated `tm_t_binary_outcome` to display Odds Ratio estimates, include new methods for CIs and p-values and
display a summary for individual response categories.
* Updated `tm_t_tte` to optionally compare between arms, removed `conf_level` argument.
* Updated `tm_g_km` to optionally compare between arms.
* Extend `tm_g_km` to optionally scale X axis range in case of multiple plots.
* New `tm_a_mmrm` for MMRM analysis.
* Deprecated `tm_t_mmrm` (superseded by `tm_a_mmrm`).

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.3

* New `tm_t_coxreg` module for multi-variable Cox regressions.
* New `tm_t_binary_outcome` module.
* New `tm_t_events_patyear` module: events rate adjusted for patient-year at risk table.
* Remove `grade_levels` argument from `tm_t_events_by_grade`.
* Response table is updated for single arm.
* New `tm_t_abnormality` module.
* Removed `get_relabel_call` and `get_relabel_call2` in favor of `teal.devel::get_relabel_call` and `teal.devel::get_anl_relabel_call`.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.2

* Add confidence level for `survfit`, `coxph`, `ztest`; add confidence type, ties, percentiles to `tm_t_tte`.
* Optionally use only single term in `tm_t_events` and `tm_t_events_by_grade` modules.
* New `tm_t_logistic` module.
* New `tm_t_mmrm` module.
* New modules `tm_t_summary_by` and `tm_t_events_summary`.
* Add stratified analysis to `tm_g_forest_tte` and `tm_g_forest_rsp`.
* Add confidence level and plotting symbol size options to `tm_g_forest_rsp` and `tm_g_forest_tte`.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.1

* New `tm_t_events` and `tm_t_events_by_grade` modules.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.8.0

* Optionally show KM and CoxPH table in `tm_g_km`.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.7.0

* Use `teal.devel`.

# teal.modules.clinical 0.6.0

* Package renamed to `teal.modules.clinical`.
* Rename `tm_t_summarize_variables` to `tm_t_summary`.
* Usage of `teal::choices_selected()` function instead of `*_var` and `*_var_choices` type of arguments.

# teal.tern 0.5.0.2

* Tables displayed with horizontal scrollbar if needed.

# teal.tern 0.5.0

* Package renamed to `teal.tern`.
* Teal modules are now named according to the function names in `tern` prefixed with an `tm_`.
* Harmonized argument names.

# teal.oncology 0.0.2

* `teal.oncology` was split into two packages: `tern` and `teal.oncology` where `tern` contains all the analysis code and `teal.oncology` contains the the teal modules that make the analysis function interactive with encodings and filtering. The `tern` package can be found here: [https://github.com/insightsengineering/tern](https://github.com/insightsengineering/tern).

# teal.oncology 0.0.1

* Initial version used for the first two atezo SREPs.
